# ASSESSMENT 5: INTRO TO RAILS
## Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions. First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory. Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own there is always something more to learn.

1. MVC (Model View Controller) is a pattern for the architecture of a software program. Give a brief description of each component and describe how Ruby on Rails handles MVC.

  Your answer:
  
  Model : The model is the model for your code and what you are passing through. You build your model by setting up your params. You will assign a name to your key and tell it what it is (string, integer, etc.). Then a model will be generated for your with those values you set up in terminal with the generate model command. The model gethers the data
  
  View : Thew view is where the code goes for what you will see. It's edited in the html.erb file. You can add the html for your pages here to display on local host when the server is run. 
  
  Controller : The controller has all your methods. In here you have your instance variables or render json. You create methods such as index, new, create, update, etc. (CRUD methods)

  Researched answer: Stands for "Model-View-Controller." MVC is an application design model comprised of three interconnected parts. They include the model (data), the view (user interface), and the controller (processes that handle input). The MVC model or "pattern" is commonly used for developing modern user interfaces.




2. Using the information given, fill in the blanks to complete the steps for creating a new view in a Rails application.

  Step 1: Create the _____route____ in the file config/routes.rb
  ```
  get '/about' => 'statics#about'
  ```

  Step 2: Create the __ Animal controller ___ in the file __ app/controllers/animal_controller.rb __
  ```
  class ____Animal________ < ApplicationController
    def ____index_______
      animal = Animal.all
      render ____json: animal____________
    end
  end
  ```

  Step 3: Create the View in the file ____ app/views/index.html.erb____
  code:
  ```
  <div>This is the About page!</div>
  ```


3a. Consider the Rails routes below. Describe the responsibility of  each route.


/users/       method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'index'

gets all the users

/users/1      method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'show'

gets the user based off the params /1 would get the user with the id of 1 if the params is set to display based off of id

/users/new    method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'new'

returns a form for creating a new user

/users/       method="POST"    # :controller => 'users', :action => 'create'

will create the new user based off of the information in new

/users/1/edit method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'edit'

returns a form for editing a user

/users/1      method="PUT"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'update'

allows for updating to a user

/users/1      method="DELETE"  # :controller => 'users', :action => 'destroy'

allows for destroying a user




3b. Which of the above routes must always be passed params and why?

show, edit, update, destroy

4. What is the public folder used for in Rails?

  Your answer: for storing images and styling

  Researched answer:
  
  In many MVC frameworks the public folder is used to serve static files. These are "dumb" files that don't interact w/the backend. The assumption is that these don't require a context generated by your controllers to render them.

  You may also see compiled assets placed there (e.g. a framework's asset pipeline combining multiple CSS files into one to reduce # of connections required to render a page).

  Additionally, when deployed to a non-development webserver, the webroot is often set to the public directory.



5. Write a rails route for a controller called "main" and a page called "game" that takes in a parameter called "guess"

in routes.rb:
get '/main/:guess' => 'main#game'


in controller:
def game
main = Main.find(params[:guess])
render json: main
end
  


6. In an html form, what does the "action" attribute tell you about the form? How do you designate the HTTP verb for the form?

  Your answer: the action is the method that is created in the controller. It is then called on through a route that points to the controllers action which is the method.
  
  def home
  end
  
  get 'welcome' => 'pages#home'
  
  the welcome route points to the pages controllers home action. This will then display the html that is specified for that controller. in the form you call on the controller URL and define the method.
  
  

  Researched answer:
  
  <form action="URL" method="get">
  
  GET results in the entire contents of the submission being visible in the URL. If your form contains sensitive data, you should specify a value of POST for the method attribute. Since GET appends the form data to the current URL, it can only be used where the contents of the submission (including the complete URL) will result in a string that is 2048 characters long, or less. This is the maximum length of a URL. GET can only be used to send ASCII data.

  
  When data is sent using POST, submitting the form twice will result in a duplicated entry. This can be a problem if the form is linked to a membership, purchase, or other one-time action. This is why users cannot bookmark the results of a form submission if the method is POST.


7. Name two rails generator commands and what files they create:

  Your answer: 
  
  rails g model - generates a model
  rails g controller - generates a controller
  rails g resource - generates the model and the controller

  Researched answer: The rails generate command uses templates to create a whole lot of things. Running rails generate by itself gives a list of available generators:


8. Rails has a great community and lots of free tutorials to help you learn. Choose one of these resources and look through the material for 10-15 min. List three new things you learned about Rails:
- [Ruby on Rails Tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ruby-on-rails/index.htm)
- [Rails for Zombies](http://railsforzombies.org)
- [Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

1. I read about the label tag and its purpose as well as the form_tag, form, and form_with

2. I read up on the purpose of different folder and files that are created in Rails. I'm very thankful I dont have to create all these files/folders and that they are all there when i create a new rails app.

3. I refreshed myself on some HTML tags such as table, tr, and th.


9. STRETCH: What are cookies? What is the difference between a session and a cookie?

  Your answer: the only cookies I know of right now are the dessert kind

  Researched answer: A cookie is a bit of data stored by the browser and sent to the server with every request. Cookies are used to identify sessions. A session is a group of information on the server that is associated with the cookie information.


